[Music]
the majority of the people with big
brands that make a killing make it
because they're a celebrity and they're
getting paid for movies or sports or
music uh as well as sponsorships like
going into TV commercials right it's
usually not from business
you have a very big reputation in the
SEO industry everyone's very well aware
of that but you also have people who are
haters right and I even get haters on my
stuff and my audience is Tiny compared
to yours so how do you deal with that
honestly I don't see most of haters I
don't I ignore it I I don't waste my
time on that kind of stuff I focus on
the business providing clients results
making sure we go above and beyond to
Delight the clients no matter what and
being there from like I don't really
worry about the haters or what people
say or I honestly don't read most of it
I honestly don't really even see most of
it no one really shows it to me so I
don't really know about 99 of my haters
and it doesn't really bother me
yeah out of sight out of mind I guess
it's about to do it
ignorance is bliss
yeah yeah that's interesting yeah
because I I did I implemented a policy
recently where like I'm done reading
comments on any of my social stuff I'm
done looking like I just made the policy
I'm just not gonna look at that anymore
yeah I still skim through the comments
and look for the value ones but I don't
worry about the haters like I don't
really see haters stopping I see it
growing and it is what it is yeah I mean
the bigger you get the more you're going
to get that's just the inevitable
progression right
yeah but I've gotten a hate for stuff
that's not even related to me I remember
my buddy Eric Sue released some software
thing or something and people started
hating on me because he released it and
like look what Neil's doing again I'm
like I don't even earn a percentage of
that business card isn't mine but like
he was telling me about it I'm like yeah
I don't really care I just move on
yeah well and also one thing that
obviously makes your situation very
unique is that you've been the face of
your businesses like across the board so
is that
is that something you want to continue
to do and what is what are the
implications of that model
it's less and less the Ad Agency used to
be called Neil Patel digital we changed
the name to NP digital still my initials
NP right for Neil Patel
um it also makes the name shorter uh
but yeah no
um
I'm less and less the face also the
bigger contracts let's say if a Ford is
paying you they don't care about Neil
Patel they care about who specifically
is working on my contract they're part
of the sales pitch and what is their
experience in my industry and what
results are they going to produce when
you go over the big contracts they
actually care really heavily about the
person on the accounts
interesting yeah so you may have got
them in the door though because of your
face so how much has that how much has
that benefit number 77 of our businesses
from referrals and RFP and employees
so I was like I'm not even getting most
of them in the door
right but I mean it certainly does help
that you are it does help it builds
trust it helps more so when we're
starting off at our size it doesn't help
as much when you're starting off a
business that helps a lot when you're
already established it doesn't help as
much as one may think
right yeah because I think about like
garyvee and vaynermedia like what his
Media Company be as big as it is if he
wasn't the face of the brand
that's kind of the the debate right I
think it helps it helps I definitely
think it drives some of the revenue but
not as much as most people think yeah
garyvee doesn't actually talk about
marketing and most his content
right no he's talking about like how to
succeed in life how to be a better
person what do you do when you're 50 and
you want to get started you think any of
these big companies as multi-million
dollar contracts are paying him for any
of the stuff he speaks about on social
media no they're not it's not even
related they're coming to him because of
the team and the value they do believe
that he's really good at Vision
storytelling social media marketing in
general
but they're looking at the team that's
working on the accounts you want to know
how vaynermedia is getting a lot of
their contracts and winning the business
I know a lot of the people that compete
with them for rfps they undercut people
in pricing they're usually the cheaper
provider in year one and they're hoping
they make their money on year two and
year three and slowly increase their
margins
yeah based on their public information
that they posted about their agency
mine's already larger when you're
looking out from a cash flow standpoint
right different way of growing do I have
a bigger brand than him no but again the
way most ad agencies build their revenue
is relationships
right
has he done an amazing job yes he's
crushing it he's done extremely well
with his Ad Agency what most people
don't realize is it's not that he's just
done well from the Ad Agency look at all
the ancillary businesses that he's also
created what was the one that so one
sold to Amex I believe it was one sold
to some other wine company or something
like that but he's created some nice
businesses that you know have sold for a
lot of money
yeah and obviously on the back of his
personal brand right so
um some of them yes I'm not trying to
Discount his personal brand I think he's
done one of the best jobs out there for
a personal brand
but more so what I'm giving him credit
for that I don't think a lot of people
give credit for is
personal brand is part of it but he's
done an amazing job with operations and
execution
branding is just a piece of it if he
couldn't actually do a great job
operating and executing there wouldn't
be the businesses of this scale there's
a lot of personal Brands out there and
people that are much more popular than
him on Instagram and Facebook but they
don't have the skill set on picking a
big enough Tam for a business or
figuring out how to build an operational
team or a executive team that can go and
execute on it really fast or helping
them out with strategy there's a lot of
things that he does to make it
successful that's outside of the brand
that are super important that most
people Overlook that I think is a big
key to his success yes brand is super
important but without those other
elements he wouldn't do even one tenth
as good as he is doing today and if you
look at influencers out there there's a
lot more people on social media that are
way popular than garyvee and again I'm
not trying to knock him I'm actually
trying to give him credit because a lot
of those other people don't make a
fraction of the money he's making
because he understands Trends operations
execution and all these other elements
that you need to create something that's
super successful
right it's not just brand that's the
point I'm getting at is those other
elements are in my opinion more
important than just bran and he has been
doing those other elements extremely
well as well
yeah yeah I mean there's a lot of people
with huge audiences that don't have big
Revenue businesses so that's clearly not
majority of the people
it's not even the majority of the part
majority of the people I know who have
big Brands don't make a killing
yeah
the majority of the people with big
brands that make a killing make it
because they're a celebrity and they're
getting paid for movies or sports or
music
as well as sponsorships like going into
TV commercials right it's usually not
from business but Gary's done well is
he's used his brand to create businesses
and then flip the business like the uh
what was that one of the companies
called Rezi or something like that I
forgot yeah yeah done really well on
that
he did really well on his nft project
but again what that creates a lot of
expenses that rezzy business I don't
know what it was called well I can
actually look it up right now Gary
vaynerchuk
uh sells company to I think it's Amex
uh uh rezzy the CRM so uh let's look
this up Amex buys rezzy
American first attentions to announce
today for a million
dollars I know it's more than a million
dollars I don't know the exact price
point but uh
either way is out there somewhere I
forgot he mentioned this somewhere some
article mentions it but either way he's
done really well and has made nine
figures from a lot of other stuff that
no one talks about and all I'm trying to
get at is
a brand is only a small piece of the pie
you need the other things to do really
well if you look at people like him and
me and I don't have as good of a brand
as Gary does it's other stuff that
really builds a company if you look at
most of the big companies out there the
largest ones it's not a personal brand
that builds that organization yeah so
you obviously you know what's probably
helped you a lot is just time doing this
as well you've had so such a long time
doing this so much experience
compounding and compounding that has led
you to this point right so now if you
were starting today would you have done
it the same way or would you have done
things differently would you have
started with the personal brand or would
you have decided no I'm not gonna do
personal brand I'm just going to go kind
of Corporation Style
that's really hard to say because
all the previous stuff I've done has
allowed me to have enough money to make
NP digital my fastest growing business
and with NP digital ice I don't know how
much I spent more than three million my
guess is maybe less than five million
that I put in my own Capital into the
business to get up and running
I didn't really keep track of some of it
it was at different times that some of
it got repaid and then I had to put more
money because sometimes you have ups and
downs but when I look at the numbers and
my growth
you know the first year
I think we were did we did like
five million in Revenue the first year
five six million as an agency I think
second year was like
15 16 if I had a guess I don't have the
exact numbers but it was something like
that
you look at my CEO who would pay an arm
and a leg to he's well worth it he drove
seven seven plus million dollars in
Revenue last year by himself
right so if I had to do it over again
and I knew this going into it I would
hire people who are
who are really experienced and have done
it multiple times uh for example my CEO
was a president of I Prospect which is a
division in densu and I think he had to
deal with four or five thousand
employees right I don't know how big I
Prospect was in Revenue if I had a guest
somewhere between 500 and 800 million I
kind of have a rough idea but it's
somewhere around there
hiring people who have already done it
just gets you bigger much faster but it
costs a lot of money
and if I had to do it again forget
personal brand I would just go hire
people who have built successful
companies in Myspace before and just pay
my arm and a leg that's what I would do
from day one
forget the personal brand that's it what
I'm talking about is this the quickest
way to build a business it's also one of
the most expensive ways because those
people are super expensive
yeah yeah I mean that what about the
challenge though if you're starting out
and you don't have the capital to hire
the best CEO or the best talent how do
you how do you reconcile that
usually can't hire the best because
those people here's the other caveat
they also don't want to be in part of
joining a startup and starting from Day
Zero they're used to working in their
corporate life and they're used to
managing a lot of people and that's what
they're good at and they're usually not
good at building something from zero to
ten twenty Thirty million they're
usually good at scaling something from
like 50 to 100 or 100 to 500 or 510
billion
so you gotta hire the best people you
can for the time
yeah based on your current your current
stage that you're at
exactly yeah I think it's I think it's
important to know too that like you know
you you going to five million dollars in
the first year obviously would you agree
that that was because of all of the
stuff that you had done prior to that
that led today it wasn't just like one
day you woke up and you started yeah
right none like 99 of the revenue came
from a personal brand we could have even
had more we couldn't hire people fast
enough second year we were able to scale
a little bit more on employee count
that's why you saw even more of a growth
on the second year third year we even
had crazy we had crazy growth as well
fourth year we had crazy growth even 50
we had crazy growth
yeah so what so it's interesting because
I know I've I've watched you over the
years and I've watched the different
business models that you've kind of had
and different things you've done
um but what led you to want to start an
agency at all because I know at one
point you weren't even doing any agency
correct
yeah I don't want to but a lot of
inbound inquiries for me to work on
Consulting for really a lot of large
brands
that was it it was just we had so much
demand of people hitting me up emailing
me personally they're like huh maybe we
should respond to these people and do
something that's where the personal
brand did help okay okay yeah so it
wasn't some like huge Revelation it was
just like hey we've got demand so why
don't we just do this you're talking
about like 10 plus years of trying to
build a personal brand and then cashing
in on it yeah and it wasn't even that
easy it was so much even the first year
there was like little to no profit you'd
be like oh five million in Revenue
literally almost no profit second year
some profit but not a ton we're just
dumping it back in to grow
yeah so what so where was that Capital
being reinvested into the agency
expansion so like right now uh different
countries regions right now we're United
States Canada
uh Brazil I'm going in my head you know
each continent I'm breaking down where
we are
um uh UK
uh Germany
uh India Australia so we're at seven
we're about to put an offer out for
someone to lead up Singapore
a we're trying to find someone to head
up the rest of Latin America for
Spanish-speaking usually for
Spanish-speaking you folks on Mexico
Colombia and I think Argentina are the
three so we would start those this year
we are interviewing someone today for
Portugal
um we may have someone to run up EMA for
us you know Europe Middle East Africa uh
and expand fashion get into France and
Italy uh we're also looking for Spain
um we have feelers out right now for
Indonesia Thailand and Malaysia but
we're going after pretty much the top 50
countries by GDP
most of them we're avoiding some like we
won't touch Russia
um we won't touch China uh we'll partner
with people in regions like uh China
uh and it's not because of like we see
anything wrong with China just political
issues you know as a startup investing
all the capital then having issues it's
a big expense and a hit for us so it's
easier to just partner with a local
agency there that's Chinese
um but yeah we'll start going after the
major regions like that
yeah that's interesting so how much does
it differ from obviously let's say
you're pitching a U.S company verse
pitching and Indian based company uh
obviously the retainers and the currency
exchange things are probably radically
different so how do you how do you
handle that
no but it's all local base so our India
team pitches India companies like we
work with Tata in India it's because we
have people in India we don't have India
to Outsource U.S work to India we have
India to work on India companies right
our Indians the agency alone I don't
have the numbers in front of me but does
millions and millions and millions a
year it does over a million a year alone
just in profit right so it's a good size
uh for a startup but like you can scale
these regions to making a good amount of
money there's a lot of big businesses in
countries like Brazil or India or
Malaysia or Thailand that most of us
never could think about
right interesting like we look at the
U.S in Europe and all these regions like
oh yeah you know there's not that many
big companies ever made there's no money
there well there is look at their GDP
it's a question of what are you doing
marketing for imagine if you're in a
hundred countries as a company in each
region only produced 2 million a year in
profit doesn't seem like a lot but
that's 200 million a year 100 regions 2
million a year even if it was a million
a year per region 100 regions that's 100
million dollars a year in Evita it adds
up
no no that's definitely true you're
you're thinking big so
um so how about the day-to-day
operations because I know you're not
actually you're not operating
I I spend 60 70 80 hours on the business
a week but I don't do day to day what I
mean day to day is I'm not on the
management calls I don't do the stuff
that I don't like I focus mainly on like
client work results strategies tactic
marketing I enjoy it to me that's fun
people like ah dealing with like client
marketing and figuring out new
strategies to grow our clients traffic
that sucks but for me that's fun yeah I
don't want to deal with Finance and
Accounting and like HR and all that kind
of stuff that's the stuff that I tend
not to deal with yes
legal and all that stuff someone has to
deal with it
yeah so do your are your days similar or
are they different most days something
always new that you're working on
similar mainly phone calls like talking
with my team oh you tried this strategy
out for this client how about you try
this one out this could be really cool
if it worked we'll let out to all
clients like just brainstorming having
fun with them that's the stuff that I
love
yeah that's that's good to know so at
this point like obviously you're not
doing this for money anymore let's be
honest here you're not doing this for
money so what what's making you do this
why why why why have these Ambitions
yeah
it's fun
a little different like we don't care
for like multiple homes and all that
kind of stuff or Ferraris we have nice
homes we have a house in Beverly Hills
we never live in my wife and I are
thinking about getting rid of it my wife
focuses all her time on raising our
children and
philanthropy she you know heads up some
organizations and has some fun doing
them and eventually we'll give away all
our money we don't think our kids need
it we think other people need it but I
love making it it's fun for me it's a
game my wife loves giving it away and
our kids can go earn it like everyone
else
yeah that's that's a good point well
let's let's kind of think about it is
how were you brought up like is this is
this kind of embedded in your family to
be kind of this
obsessive
okay yeah they all will work hard then
most my family didn't donate as much but
they also didn't make as much different
times right it was easier for my parents
than it was for my grandparents right
every generation the dream the American
dream is it gets easier and the grass is
greener on this side and hopefully uh
it's easier for future Generations now I
don't think it's necessarily true I
think it's actually harder these days
for new people that are being brought up
to buy a home or do a lot of things but
hopefully people who have money can give
back and help all the other people who
aren't uh in as much uh don't have as
much privilege like I look at like
education system what happens if we can
give amazing education to everyone
minorities inner city kids everyone
what would it do you probably would have
less crime more people who are
successful the world would be a much
better place
but why can't that happen if the
government can't do it why can't a lot
of people with money use their power and
their money to help out there's a lot of
things that people can a lot of good
people can do with their money and I'm
hoping more and more people do it and if
you look at what my wife and I do we
actually don't do that much compared to
the grand scheme of things you look at
what people like Bill Gates or Warren
Buffett are doing they do what much more
than my wife and I I don't think we'll
ever be able to do what they'll be able
to do because we don't have the capital
and the resources they do but you know
if everyone can just do their part
hopefully it makes the world a better
place as cheesy and cliche as it may
sound yeah yeah so are you are you
trying to with your children is your
goal to kind of teach them the
entrepreneurial way are you just going
to let them kind of figure it out on
their own
uh it depends if you ask me or my wife
my wife wants to just raise really good
human beings
I looked on my three-year-old daughter
like she'll want something like
negotiate with me why should I give it
to you what am I gonna get right so like
uh I like teaching a business but for me
it's a passion uh my wife
isn't as obsessed about our kids have to
do this or be this in their career or
make this much money I just need to
raise good human beings that you know
are ethical try to help other people out
and have their head on straight and my
wife is 10 times better than me maybe a
hundred times better than me at raising
our kids
um so I try not to really push him in
One Direction or another but I have some
fun and I teach them some skills or if
my daughter wants to watch cartoons
they'll be like all right I'll give you
10 minutes of cartoon if you watch CNBC
or Bloomberg for 10 minutes right he's
not going to soak in that much but you
know it's I'm gonna try to do whatever I
can to make them entrepreneurs if they
don't want to be I'm not going to really
uh push that much yeah well that's
pretty much all I have well thank you so
much this has been very very useful
um and I I think it's you're going to
help a lot of people following you for a
long time and kind of see the inner
workings of what you're doing
um now the last question is what's the
what's the five ten year goal this you
want to keep writing this out MP digital
or you have like a long-term vision of
like I'm gonna sell this thing at x no
just keep writing it out and having fun
yeah whatever happens happens but just
keep growing and having fun well thank
you so much Neil and um congrats on all
your business success thank you for
coming on thanks for having me